PETSc-FEM - a general  purpose,  parallel, multi-physics FEM program 

```
             ____  _________________            ______________  ___
            / __ \/ ____/_  __/ ___/_____      / ____/ ____/  |/  /
           / /_/ / __/   / /  \__ \/ ___/_____/ /_  / __/ / /|_/ / 
          / ____/ /___  / /  ___/ / /__/_____/ __/ / /___/ /  / /  
         /_/   /_____/ /_/  /____/\___/     /_/   /_____/_/  /_/   
```
                                                          


# SYNOPSIS 

This is PETSc-FEM, a general purpose, parallel, multi-physics FEM
(Finite Element Method) program for CFD (Computational Fluid Dynamics)
applications based on PETSc . PETSc-FEM comprises both a library that
allows the user to develop FEM (or FEM-like, i.e.  non-structured mesh
oriented) programs, and a suite of application programs.  It is
written in the C++ language with an OOP (Object Oriented Programming)
philosophy, keeping in mind the scope of efficiency. PETSc-FEM may run
in parallel using the MPI standard on a variety of architectures, but
currently it has been tested in Beowulf clusters only.

PETSc-FEM is GPL, for further details read the file COPYING in the
root directory of the distribution.

# LICENSE

This file belongs to the PETSc - FEM package a library and application
suite oriented to the Finite Element Method based on PETSc.  Copyright
(C) 1999-2008, Mario Alberto Storti, Norberto Marcelo Nigro, Rodrigo
Rafael Paz, Lisandro Dalcin and Ezequiel Lopez, Centro Internacional de Metodos
Numericos en Ingenieria (CIMEC-Argentina), Universidad Nacional del
Litoral (UNL-Argentina), Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones
Cientificas y Tecnicas (CONICET-Argentina).

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307,
USA.
