@\input texinfo
@c %**start of header
@setfilename options.info
@settitle PETSc-FEM Options
@c %**end of header

@copying
This file belongs to the PETSc - FEM package a library and application
suite oriented to the Finite Element Method based on PETSc. Copyright
(C) 1999-2003, Mario Alberto Storti, Norberto Marcelo Nigro and Rodrigo
Rafael Paz, Centro Internacional de Metodos Numericos en Ingenieria
(CIMEC-Argentina), Universidad Nacional del Litoral (UNL-Argentina),
Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones Cientificas y Tecnicas
(CONICET-Argentina).

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by the
Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at your
option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the GNU General
Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License along
with this program; if not, write to the Free Software Foundation, Inc.,
59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307, USA.
@end copying

@titlepage
@title PETSc-FEM Options Reference 

@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@contents

@ifnottex
@node Top, Copying, (dir), (dir)
@top PETSc-FEM Options Reference
@end ifnottex

PETSc-FEM is a general purpose, parallel, multi-physics FEM
program for CFD applications based on PETSc. PETSc-FEM comprises both a
library that allows the user to develop FEM (or FEM-like, i.e.
non-structured mesh oriented) programs, and a suite of application
programs. It is written in the C++ language with an OOP (Object Oriented
Programming) philosophy, keeping in mind the scope of efficiency.
PETSc-FEM may run in parallel using the MPI standard on a variety of
architectures, but currently it has been tested in Beowulf clusters
only. The home page for PETSc-FEM is @url{http://www.cimec.org.ar/petscfem}

PETSc-FEM is GPL, for further details read the file COPYING in the
root directory of the distribution.  Many elements in PETSc-FEM can be
configured in the data file via an ``options table''. In this manual we
only include the documentation for the options. Documentation
for PETSc-FEM can be downloaded at the home page. 

@menu
* Copying::                     
* Options::                     
* Options Index::               
@end menu

@node Copying, Options, Top, Top
@chapter PETSc-FEM license
@insertcopying

@node Options, Options Index, Copying, Top
@chapter Options

The list of all options

@menu
@end menu


@node Options Index,  , Options, Top
@unnumbered Options Index
     
@printindex vr

@bye
