%        -*- mode: text -*-

This is the README file for PETSc-FEM in POD (Plain Old Documentation)
format (this is the standard embedding doc system in the Perl world).
It can be converted to text, latex and html with specific conversion
programs.

%================================================================

             ____  _________________            ______________  ___
            / __ \/ ____/_  __/ ___/_____      / ____/ ____/  |/  /
           / /_/ / __/   / /  \__ \/ ___/_____/ /_  / __/ / /|_/ / 
          / ____/ /___  / /  ___/ / /__/_____/ __/ / /___/ /  / /  
         /_/   /_____/ /_/  /____/\___/     /_/   /_____/_/  /_/   
                                                          


=head1 NAME

PETSc-FEM - a general  purpose,  parallel, multi-physics  FEM program 

=head1 SYNOPSIS 

This is PETSc-FEM, a general purpose, parallel, multi-physics FEM
program for CFD applications based on PETSc. PETSc-FEM comprises both
a library that allows the user to develop FEM (or FEM-like, i.e.
non-structured mesh oriented) programs, and a suite of application
programs.  It is written in the C++ language with an OOP (Object
Oriented Programming) philosophy, keeping in mind the scope
of efficiency. PETSc-FEM may run in parallel using the MPI standard on a
variety of architectures, but currently it has been tested in Beowulf
clusters only. 

PETSc-FEM is GPL, for further details read the file COPYING in the
root directory of the distribution.

=head1 LICENSE

This file belongs to the PETSc - FEM package a library and application
suite oriented to the Finite Element Method based on PETSc.  Copyright
(C) 1999-2003, Mario Alberto Storti, Norberto Marcelo Nigro, Centro
Internacional de Metodos Numericos en Ingenieria (CIMEC-Argentina),
Universidad Nacional del Litoral (UNL-Argentina), Consejo Nacional de
Investigaciones Cientificas y Tecnicas (CONICET-Argentina).

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, but
WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307,
USA.

=head1 INSTALLATION

=head2 Platforms

Currently, PETSc-FEM is known to run only on Beowulf class clusters
based on Intel processors, running the GNU/Linux OS.  Off course, you
can also install PETSc-FEM in a single GNU/Linux box, for use in
sequential (i.e. non-parallel) mode or either for simulating parallel
runs, by launching several processes in the same processor. (This is a
feature of MPI).

I guess it should be easy to install in other processor architectures
(SPARC or Alpha) running GNU/Linux and also (maybe) on other Unix
flavours.

=head2 Required Software

Before installing PETSc-FEM, please verify you have the following
packages correctly installed in your system. 

=over 4 

=item MPI  

This is the Message Passing Interface. We are currently using MPICH
(C<http://www.mcs.anl.gov/mpich>) but I think there will be not problem
with LAM MPI.

=item PETSC

This is the 'Portable, Extensible Toolkit for Scientific Computation'
and can be found at C<http://www.mcs.anl.gov/petsc/>.

=item LAPACK

This is, in fact, a prerequisiste to install PETSc and can be found at 
C<http://www.netlib.org/lapack/>. 

=item Libretto

This is a C library of generic containers and can be found at
C<http://pobox.com/~aaronc/tech/libretto/>. I have learned recently
that development of Libretto has been stopped since it has been
superseded by B<GLIB>, so that I think that in a future I will replace
the Libretto code by B<GLIB>. Also, the STL library (that comes with
gcc) can replace all or some of the features provided by B<Libretto>
but I found that the STL implementation (at least that one that comes
with gcc) is rather inefficient. 

=item GLIB

GLIB is a library which includes support routines for C such as lists,
trees, hashes, memory allocation, and many other things. The official
web site is C<http://www.gtk.org/>. [RedHat RPM packages: C<GLIB>,
C<glib-devel>]

=item Newmat

This is a matrix library to be used mainly at the element routine
level, i.e. for small matrices and can be found at
C<http://webnz.com/robert/>. It is not mandatory to use Newmat for all
element calculations. In fact there is included a matrix class called
FastMat2 that is more performant, but Newmat is still used in some
internal parts and has much more functions, so that you have to
install it. Also, you may prefer I<Newmat> over I<FastMat2> for
element calculations since it supports overloading of algebraic
operations. See the documentation on I<FastMat2> in the I<PETSc-FEM>
documentation for reasons why to use FastMat2 instead of Newmat.

=item METIS

METIS is a software package for partitioning unstructured graphs,
partitioning meshes, and computing fill-reducing orderings of sparse
matrices. It can be found at C<http://www.cs.umn.edu/~metis>. 

=item Meschach

The Meschach Library is a numerical library of C routines for
performing calculations on matrices and vectors. It is used only for
some functions that can not be done with Newmat. Currently, it is used
in the advective module for performing eigenvalue decomposition of
non-symettric matrices. I think that in a future this functionality
could be replaced by calls to LAPACK. 

=item ePerl

B<ePerl> (for I<embedded Perl>) is a preprocessor much like the B<C>
language preprocessor (home page:
C<http://www.engelschall.com/sw/eperl/>). B<ePerl> allows you to embed
arbitrary B<Perl> code in your document. It is not required at all,
but is is very useful for preprocessing the data files. 
[RedHat RPM package: C<eperl>]. NEW: from version 3.18.pl44 on the
Perl based version of C<eperl> is include in the <tools> directory. So
that it is not needed to install it!! The Perl based version can be
marginally different from the C<C> version. If you want to specify your
own C<eperl> preprocessor then you have to modify the C<EPERL>
variable in C<Makefile.base>. The Perl version of ePerl is written
and maintained by David Ljung Madison C<< <DaveSource.com> >>
C<http://MarginalHacks.com>. License: GPL (See C<tools/eperl_license.txt>). 

=item Perl

If you want to use B<ePerl> then you need to have B<Perl>
installed. [RedHat RPM package: C<perl>].

=item SuperLU (optional)

A collection of ANSI C routines to solve sparse linear systems of
equations. Can be found at C<http://www.nersc.gov/~xiaoye/SuperLU/>. 
This package is optional, install it if you think that SuperLU is faster
than PETSc for direct factorization of sparse matrices. 

=item ANN (optional)

This is the I<Approximate Nearest Neighbor Library> and can be found
at C<http://www.cs.umd.edu/~mount/ANN>. Currently it is only used in
the Navier-Stokes module for calculating the damping functions in the
Smagorinsky model. However, in a future it may be used more widely for
some mesh manipulations. Currently it is optional. 

=item pthreads library (optional)

This is a POSIX compliant library for threads, currently used for
asynchronous communication with the IBM Data Explorer visualization
tool, but it might be used for other things in a near future. 
It comes with gcc, so that if you use gcc, you probably have it
already installed. 

=item Simple Sockets Library (SSL) (optional)

The Simple Sockets Library (SSL) allows C programmers to use
interprocess communications via Berkeley sockets simply and quickly.
Most of the SSL's functions resemble C's file i/o functions, so C
programmers will find the SSL easy to learn. Currently used for
communication with the IBM Data Explorer visualization tool, but 
but it might be used for other things in a near future. 
[Current verision: 2.11a Tue Mar  6 09:46:16 EST 2001]
[Note: If you do a web search you can find it as a file C<COSMIC.tar.gz>
or C<ssl.tar.gz>].

=back

=head2 Unpacking

Once you got the C<petscfem-xxx.tar.gz> package (C<xxx> stands for the
version), gunzip and untar it like this:

  $ gunzip petscfem-xxx.tar.gz
  $ tar xvf petscfem-xxx.tar

This will create a I<petscfem-xxx> directory with
all the source files included.

=head2 Makefile variables

=over 

=item C<$(PETSCFEM_DIR)>

The root of the PETSc-FEM package

=item C<$(PETSC_ARCH)>, C<$(PETSC_HOME)>

These are variables relative to PETSc. See documentation.

=back

=head2 Configuring

Once you have all the software mentioned in L<Required Software>
installed, you have to define the variables in the B<CONFIGURATION
VARIABLES> section in file F<$(PETSCFEM_DIR)/Makefile.base>. 

=over

=item *

First you have to set the C<PETSC_BOPT> variable which is the default
value for the C<PETSc> C<BOPT> variable, which sets the
optimization level to be used in compilation. You can set it to 

=over 

=item C<PETSC_BOPT = g_c++>

Compiles for debugging.

=item C<PETSC_BOPT = O_c++>

Compiles with optimization enabled.

=back

The optimization level is inherited by the C<PETSc> libraries so that
if you compile with C<PETSC_BOPT=O_c++> then not only C<PETSc-FEM>
will be compiled with optimization, but also the C<PETSc> optimized
libraries will be used. The specific optimization options are set in 
C<$(PETSC_DIR)/bmake/$(PETSC_ARCH)/variables> (C<OCXX_COPTFLAGS> variable). 
According to our experience
maximum optimization is achieved with <BOPT=-O2 -funroll-loops>. 

The default value can be superseded by, for instance, issuing 

  $ make BOPT=O_c++ ns

This compiles the Navier-Stokes module with optimization enabled
independently of the C<PETSC_BOPT> default value.

=item *

The C<PROF_FLAGS> variables allows you to turn on profiling. By
default, profiling is deactivated.

=item *

Other configuration variables are defined in a file C<Makefile.defs>,
but normally they are set only when you first install PETSc-FEM, so
the best is to put C<Makefile.defs> in the directory inmediately above
PETSc-FEM directory (i.e. C<$(PETSCFEM_DIR)/..>).  So that, if you
install another version of PETSc-FEM, the settings will be seen
immediately by the new version. A version of C<Makefile.defs> is
included in the PETSc-FEM directory.  Copy it to the directory _above_
the PETSC-FEM directory and configure the variables inside. If you
install another version of PETSc-FEM then probably you have not to
configure again these variables, unless a new package has been added
or you have moved it. 

=back

=head2 Compiling

C<cd> to directory C<$(PETSCFEM_DIR)> and do 

  $ make depend
  $ make libpetscfem        # to build the library
  $ make all                # to build the library and all the modules

also

  $ make what

can help you on other useful targets.

If nothing goes wrong you will end with a F<src/libpetscfem.a> library
and application binaries (ending in C<.bin>) in their respective
directories, e.g. F<applications/ns/ns.bin> is the Navier-Stokes binary. 

=head1 DOCUMENTATION

Documentation for I<PETSc-FEM> is included in the
C<$(PETSCFEM_DIR)/doc> directory. There is basically a reference
manual written in I<LaTeX> (F<doc/petscfem.tex>), and embedded
documentation for the routines to be used with C<Doc++>. In the
standard distrib you should find both of them converted to HTML
(C<LaTeX> is converted with C<latex2html>) and accessible from
F<doc/index.html>. Other formats (perhaps PostScript and PDF) may be also
found in the C<doc> directory.

=head1 TESTS AND EXAMPLES

Many tests and examples are in the C<$(PETSCFEM_DIR)/test> directory.

=head1 WRITING A NEW APPLICATION MODULE

The best way to start coding an application program is to duplicate a
directory (for instance C<applications/advdif>) or (for instance
C<applications/ns>) to a directory from
your own (i.e. outside the C<$(PETSCFEM_DIR)> tree, say
C</your/appl/path>. Configure the C<$(PETSCFEM_DIR)> variable in the
local makefile (i.e. C</your/appl/path/Makefile>).You should have to
configure other variables as well, perhaps C<$(MYOBJS)> (this is a
list of the object (C<.o>) files in this local directory) and
C<$(PROG)> (the name of the program to be built, without the suffix
C<.bin>).

=head1 AUTHORS

Mario A. Storti, Norberto M. Nigro and others. CIMEC, Internacional
Center for Computational Methods in Engineering, Santa Fe, Argentina. 

=head1 CONTACTS

=over

=item *

B<e-mail:> C<<mstorti@intec.unl.edu.ar>>

=item *

B<www:> C<http://www.cimec.org.ar/petscfem>

=item *

B<ordinary mail:> Mario Storti, Guemes 3450, 3000 Santa Fe, Argentina.

=back

=cut
