.rn '' }`
''' $RCSfile: README.1,v $$Revision: 1.1.1.1 $$Date: 2000/12/28 12:54:42 $
'''
''' $Log: README.1,v $
''' Revision 1.1.1.1  2000/12/28 12:54:42  mstorti
''' This  is PETSc-FEM,  a  general purpose,  parallel, multi-physics  FEM
''' program for CFD applications  based on PETSc. PETSc-FEM comprises both
''' a  library that  allows the  user to  develop FEM  (or  FEM-like, i.e.
''' structured  mesh  oriented)  programs,  and  a  suite  of  application
''' programs.   It is  written in  the C++  language with  an  OOP (Object
''' Oriented Programming) philosophy, but always keeping in mind the scope
''' of efficiency.
'''
''' PETSc-FEM is  GPL, for  further details read  the file COPYING  in the
''' root directory of the distribution.
'''
'''
.de Sh
.br
.if t .Sp
.ne 5
.PP
\fB\\$1\fR
.PP
..
.de Sp
.if t .sp .5v
.if n .sp
..
.de Ip
.br
.ie \\n(.$>=3 .ne \\$3
.el .ne 3
.IP "\\$1" \\$2
..
.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.de Ve
.ft R

.fi
..
'''
'''
'''     Set up \*(-- to give an unbreakable dash;
'''     string Tr holds user defined translation string.
'''     Bell System Logo is used as a dummy character.
'''
.tr \(*W-|\(bv\*(Tr
.ie n \{\
.ds -- \(*W-
.ds PI pi
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=24u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-12u'-\" diablo 10 pitch
.if (\n(.H=4u)&(1m=20u) .ds -- \(*W\h'-12u'\(*W\h'-8u'-\" diablo 12 pitch
.ds L" ""
.ds R" ""
'''   \*(M", \*(S", \*(N" and \*(T" are the equivalent of
'''   \*(L" and \*(R", except that they are used on ".xx" lines,
'''   such as .IP and .SH, which do another additional levels of
'''   double-quote interpretation
.ds M" """
.ds S" """
.ds N" """""
.ds T" """""
.ds L' '
.ds R' '
.ds M' '
.ds S' '
.ds N' '
.ds T' '
'br\}
.el\{\
.ds -- \(em\|
.tr \*(Tr
.ds L" ``
.ds R" ''
.ds M" ``
.ds S" ''
.ds N" ``
.ds T" ''
.ds L' `
.ds R' '
.ds M' `
.ds S' '
.ds N' `
.ds T' '
.ds PI \(*p
'br\}
.\"	If the F register is turned on, we'll generate
.\"	index entries out stderr for the following things:
.\"		TH	Title 
.\"		SH	Header
.\"		Sh	Subsection 
.\"		Ip	Item
.\"		X<>	Xref  (embedded
.\"	Of course, you have to process the output yourself
.\"	in some meaninful fashion.
.if \nF \{
.de IX
.tm Index:\\$1\t\\n%\t"\\$2"
..
.nr % 0
.rr F
.\}
.TH README 1 "perl 5.005, patch 03" "23/Dec/2000" "User Contributed Perl Documentation"
.UC
.if n .hy 0
.if n .na
.ds C+ C\v'-.1v'\h'-1p'\s-2+\h'-1p'+\s0\v'.1v'\h'-1p'
.de CQ          \" put $1 in typewriter font
.ft CW
'if n "\c
'if t \\&\\$1\c
'if n \\&\\$1\c
'if n \&"
\\&\\$2 \\$3 \\$4 \\$5 \\$6 \\$7
'.ft R
..
.\" @(#)ms.acc 1.5 88/02/08 SMI; from UCB 4.2
.	\" AM - accent mark definitions
.bd B 3
.	\" fudge factors for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds #H 0
.	ds #V .8m
.	ds #F .3m
.	ds #[ \f1
.	ds #] \fP
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds #H ((1u-(\\\\n(.fu%2u))*.13m)
.	ds #V .6m
.	ds #F 0
.	ds #[ \&
.	ds #] \&
.\}
.	\" simple accents for nroff and troff
.if n \{\
.	ds ' \&
.	ds ` \&
.	ds ^ \&
.	ds , \&
.	ds ~ ~
.	ds ? ?
.	ds ! !
.	ds /
.	ds q
.\}
.if t \{\
.	ds ' \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\'\h"|\\n:u"
.	ds ` \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\`\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'^\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds , \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)',\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu-\*(#H-.1m)'~\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds ? \s-2c\h'-\w'c'u*7/10'\u\h'\*(#H'\zi\d\s+2\h'\w'c'u*8/10'
.	ds ! \s-2\(or\s+2\h'-\w'\(or'u'\v'-.8m'.\v'.8m'
.	ds / \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H)'\z\(sl\h'|\\n:u'
.	ds q o\h'-\w'o'u*8/10'\s-4\v'.4m'\z\(*i\v'-.4m'\s+4\h'\w'o'u*8/10'
.\}
.	\" troff and (daisy-wheel) nroff accents
.ds : \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10-\*(#H+.1m+\*(#F)'\v'-\*(#V'\z.\h'.2m+\*(#F'.\h'|\\n:u'\v'\*(#V'
.ds 8 \h'\*(#H'\(*b\h'-\*(#H'
.ds v \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\v'-\*(#V'\*(#[\s-4v\s0\v'\*(#V'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds _ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H+(\*(#F*2/3))'\v'-.4m'\z\(hy\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds . \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*8/10)'\v'\*(#V*4/10'\z.\v'-\*(#V*4/10'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds 3 \*(#[\v'.2m'\s-2\&3\s0\v'-.2m'\*(#]
.ds o \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu+\w'\(de'u-\*(#H)/2u'\v'-.3n'\*(#[\z\(de\v'.3n'\h'|\\n:u'\*(#]
.ds d- \h'\*(#H'\(pd\h'-\w'~'u'\v'-.25m'\f2\(hy\fP\v'.25m'\h'-\*(#H'
.ds D- D\\k:\h'-\w'D'u'\v'-.11m'\z\(hy\v'.11m'\h'|\\n:u'
.ds th \*(#[\v'.3m'\s+1I\s-1\v'-.3m'\h'-(\w'I'u*2/3)'\s-1o\s+1\*(#]
.ds Th \*(#[\s+2I\s-2\h'-\w'I'u*3/5'\v'-.3m'o\v'.3m'\*(#]
.ds ae a\h'-(\w'a'u*4/10)'e
.ds Ae A\h'-(\w'A'u*4/10)'E
.ds oe o\h'-(\w'o'u*4/10)'e
.ds Oe O\h'-(\w'O'u*4/10)'E
.	\" corrections for vroff
.if v .ds ~ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*9/10-\*(#H)'\s-2\u~\d\s+2\h'|\\n:u'
.if v .ds ^ \\k:\h'-(\\n(.wu*10/11-\*(#H)'\v'-.4m'^\v'.4m'\h'|\\n:u'
.	\" for low resolution devices (crt and lpr)
.if \n(.H>23 .if \n(.V>19 \
\{\
.	ds : e
.	ds 8 ss
.	ds v \h'-1'\o'\(aa\(ga'
.	ds _ \h'-1'^
.	ds . \h'-1'.
.	ds 3 3
.	ds o a
.	ds d- d\h'-1'\(ga
.	ds D- D\h'-1'\(hy
.	ds th \o'bp'
.	ds Th \o'LP'
.	ds ae ae
.	ds Ae AE
.	ds oe oe
.	ds Oe OE
.\}
.rm #[ #] #H #V #F C
.SH "NAME"
PETSc-FEM \- a general  purpose,  parallel, multi-physics  FEM program 
.SH "SYNOPSIS"
This is PETSc-FEM, a general purpose, parallel, multi-physics FEM
program for CFD applications based on PETSc. PETSc-FEM comprises both
a library that allows the user to develop FEM (or FEM\-like, i.e.
structured mesh oriented) programs, and a suite of application
programs.  It is written in the \*(C+ language with an OOP (Object
Oriented Programming) philosophy, but always keeping in mind the scope
of efficiency.
.PP
PETSc-FEM is GPL, for further details read the file COPYING in the
root directory of the distribution.
.SH "INSTALLATION"
.Sh "Platforms"
Currently, PETSc-\s-1FEM\s0 is known to run only on Beowulf class clusters
based on Intel processors, running the \s-1GNU/\s0Linux \s-1OS\s0.  Off course, you
can also install PETSc-\s-1FEM\s0 in a single Linux box, for use in
sequential (i.e. non-parallel) mode or either for simulating parallel
runs, by launching several processes in the same processor. (This is a
feature of \s-1MPI\s0).
.PP
I guess it may be easy to install in other processor architectures
(\s-1SPARC\s0 or Alpha) running Linux and also on other Unix flavours. 
.Sh "Required Software"
Before installing PETSc-\s-1FEM\s0, please verify you have the following
packages correctly installed in your system. 
This is the Message Passing Interface. We are currently using \s-1MPICH\s0
(the section on \fI/www.mcs.anl.gov/mpich\fR in the \fIhttp:\fR manpage) but I think there will be not problem
with \s-1LAM\s0 \s-1MPI\s0.
.Ip "\s-1PETSC\s0" 4
This is the \*(L'Portable, Extensible Toolkit for Scientific Computation\*(R'
and can be found at the section on \fI/www.mcs.anl.gov/petsc/\fR in the \fIhttp:\fR manpage.
.Ip "\s-1LAPACK\s0" 4
This is, in fact, a prerequisiste to install PETSc and can be found at 
the section on \fI/www.netlib.org/lapack/\fR in the \fIhttp:\fR manpage. 
.Ip "Libretto" 4
This is a C library of generic containers and can be found at
the section on \fI/pobox.com/~aaronc/tech/libretto/\fR in the \fIhttp:\fR manpage. I have learned recently
that development of Libretto has been stopped since it has been
superseded by \fBglib\fR, so that I think that in a future I will replace
the Libretto code by \fBglib\fR. Also, the \s-1STL\s0 library (that comes with
gcc) can replace all or some of the features provided by \fBLibretto\fR
but I found that the \s-1STL\s0 implementation (at least that one that comes
with gcc) is rather inefficient. 
.Ip "\s-1GLIB\s0" 4
GLib is a library which includes support routines for C such as lists,
trees, hashes, memory allocation, and many other things. The official
web site is  the section on \fI/www.gtk.org/\fR in the \fIhttp:\fR manpage. [There are \s-1RPM\s0 packages for RedHat]
.Ip "Newmat" 4
This is a matrix library to be used mainly at the element routine
level, i.e. for small matrices and can be found at
the section on \fI/webnz.com/robert/\fR in the \fIhttp:\fR manpage. It is not mandatory to use Newmat for all
element calculations. In fact there is included a matrix class called
FastMat2 that is more performant, but Newmat is still used in some
internal parts and has much more functions, so that you have to
install it. Also, you may prefer \fINewmat\fR over \fIFastMat2\fR for
element calculations since it supports overloading of algebraic
operations. See the documentation on \fIFastMat2\fR in the \fIPETSc-\s-1FEM\s0\fR
documentation for reasons why to use FastMat2 instead of Newmat.
.Ip "\s-1ANN\s0" 4
This is the \fIApproximate Nearest Neighbor Library\fR and can be found
at the section on \fI/www.cs.umd.edu/~mount/\s-1ANN\s0\fR in the \fIhttp:\fR manpage. Currently it is only used in
the Navier-Stokes module for calculating the damping functions in the
Smagorinsky model. However, in a future it may be used more widely for
some mesh manipulations.
.Ip "\s-1METIS\s0" 4
\s-1METIS\s0 is a software package for partitioning unstructured graphs,
partitioning meshes, and computing fill-reducing orderings of sparse
matrices. It can be found at the section on \fI/www.cs.umn.edu/~metis\fR in /usr/bin/pod2man: README.pod is missing required section: DESCRIPTION
the \fIhttp:\fR manpage. 
.Ip "Meschach" 4
The Meschach Library is a numerical library of C routines for
performing calculations on matrices and vectors. It is used only for
some functions that can not be done with Newmat. Currently, it is used
in the advective module for performing eigenvalue decomposition of
non-symettric matrices. I think that in a future this functionality
could be replaced by calls to \s-1LAPACK\s0. 
.Sh "Unpacking"
Once you got the \fIpetscfem-xxx.tar.gz\fR package, gunzip nd untar it
like this:
.PP
.Vb 2
\&  $ gunzip petscfem-xxx.tar.gz
\&  $ tar xvf petscfem-xxx.tar
.Ve
This will create a \fIpetscfem-xxx\fR directory with all the source files
included.
.Sh "Configuring"
Once you have all the software mentioned in the previous section
installed, you have to define the variables in the \fB\s-1CONFIGURATION\s0
\s-1VARIABLES\s0\fR section in file \fI$\s-1PETSCFEM_DIR/\s0Makefile.base\fR. This are
usually Makefile variables that point to directories containing
headers or libaries of required software. The lines come commented out
and a line like this 
.PP
.Vb 1
\&   include $(PETSCFEM_DIR)/../Makefile.defs
.Ve
includes a file containing the definitions. You have to either
.Ip "Comment the \f(CWinclude\fR file out, uncomment the variable definition lines and set the appropriate values, or " 5
.Ip "edit a file \fI$(\s-1PETSCFEM_DIR\s0)/../Makefiles.defs\fR (i.e., in the directory inmediately above the \f(CW$(PETSCFEM_DIR)\fR directory) containing the appropriate definitions." 5
.PP
This last strategy allows you to have configure several versions of
\fBPETSc-\s-1FEM\s0\fR at the same directory, or changing the \fBPETSc-\s-1FEM\s0\fR
version without having to reenter the variables. 
.PP
Finally you have to set the \f(CWBOPT\fR \f(CWPETSc\fR variable. You can set it to 
.Ip "\f(CWBOPT = g_c++\fR" 5
Compiles for debugging.
.Ip "\f(CWBOPT = O_c++\fR" 5
Compiles with optimization enabled.
.PP
The optimization level is inherited from the \f(CWPETSc\fR installation,
i.e. it is defined in \f(CW$(PETSC_HOME)/bmake/$(PETSC_ARCH)\fR. 
.Sh ""
.SH "LICENSE"
This file belongs to he PETSc \-  FEM package a library and application
suite oriented to the Finite Element Method based on PETSc.  Copyright
(C) 1999, 2000 Mario Alberto Storti
.PP
This program is free software;  you can redistribute it and/or  modify
it under the terms  of the GNU General Public  License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version  2 of the License, or (at
your option) any later version.
.PP
This program  is distributed in  the hope that  it will be useful, but
WITHOUT  ANY  WARRANTY;     without  even the   implied   warranty  of
MERCHANTABILITY  or  FITNESS FOR A  PARTICULAR PURPOSE.    See the GNU
General Public License for more details.
.PP
You should have received  a  copy of  the  GNU General Public  License
along  with    this program;  if  not,  write  to  the   Free Software
Foundation, Inc.,  59 Temple Place,  Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307,
USA.

.rn }` ''
.IX Title "README 1"
.IX Name "PETSc-FEM - a general  purpose,  parallel, multi-physics  FEM program"

.IX Header "NAME"

.IX Header "SYNOPSIS"

.IX Header "INSTALLATION"

.IX Subsection "Platforms"

.IX Subsection "Required Software"

.IX Item "\s-1PETSC\s0"

.IX Item "\s-1LAPACK\s0"

.IX Item "Libretto"

.IX Item "\s-1GLIB\s0"

.IX Item "Newmat"

.IX Item "\s-1ANN\s0"

.IX Item "\s-1METIS\s0"

.IX Item "Meschach"

.IX Subsection "Unpacking"

.IX Subsection "Configuring"

.IX Item "Comment the \f(CWinclude\fR file out, uncomment the variable definition lines and set the appropriate values, or "

.IX Item "edit a file \fI$(\s-1PETSCFEM_DIR\s0)/../Makefiles.defs\fR (i.e., in the directory inmediately above the \f(CW$(PETSCFEM_DIR)\fR directory) containing the appropriate definitions."

.IX Item "\f(CWBOPT = g_c++\fR"

.IX Item "\f(CWBOPT = O_c++\fR"

.IX Subsection ""

.IX Header "LICENSE"

